[SOUND OF WIND]
Again, good morning, and welcome everyone. Again, thank you. This is one of the again beautiful,
glorious days in the Southern Florida, beautiful sunshine. Truly, we are also very beautiful,
glorious days, very connecting back to the teaching and the practice that what we've been
practicing.
So therefore, again, I'd like to thank you very much everyone, and good morning.
Bon adiós, and to everyone, wherever you're connected, wherever you are, are looking,
watching, oh, curiosity, and I wish truly from the bottom of my heart,
rest in understanding of the Buddha teaching, or glorify your already knowledge, understand.
Somebody is refreshed so that we can always continue to move forward on the track,
not disturbed, delayed, discouraged, always bounce back with courage and commitment,
confidence with full of joy and full of goals, beautiful goals. This is advancing,
adventure. The goal of the Buddha's heart is part of love, compassion, kindness,
joy, and peace, and rewarding to each other. Truly, it is. It's nothing. It's non-violence.
It's true. We're touching back with our nature. That's what the teaching is all about.
Our own nature. We're not creating any dogmas so that we become realistic,
truly born, drawn to the earth, and discover our innate beauty.
Let the radiating from our heart and the sunshine, and shine that truth everywhere, wherever we go.
That is our goal. That is our wish. And that is our destination.
So therefore, it is beautiful. And to begin this again, of course, always in the new millennium,
every great master, and every time, the beginning of our practices,
whether we are practicing, whether we are studying, whether we are contemplating,
whether we are meditating in the practices, we should be strengthening our beautiful
motivation of both each other and joy and appreciation.
That very is the foundation of the practices. That very is the center column of the practices.
And that very is our destination to discover when you reach Buddhahood, it's full of joy,
full of appreciation, and full of relax, peace, harmony. That is what Buddhahood is.
We begin from now, from today, that practice, not waiting somewhere and can't catch up there.
Right now, this is our nature. Therefore, we strengthen all those beautiful qualities,
beautiful intention, and thinking of all the sentient beings.
Motherly sentient beings always say, thinking of all motherly sentient beings,
for to help and to remove their suffering and difficulties, and for all their wishes.
Therefore, I am going to practicing, I am going to listen, teaching, contemplating that.
That is truly from our heart. It is not just live, service, talking.
From the bottom of our heart, really, we are thinking that.
And it's the same thing with that old thought, together with the understanding of the
Vedayana teaching. Also, apply this, kind of bring up the realization of the truly beautiful,
the beauty and understanding of the naturals, known as three various states,
various forms, various sounds, various spaces, various natures.
Bring up that realization, combine it together, then we move forward with the teachings and
practices.
And so, those are very important with that. And then, now the teaching itself, we move that.
But I am going to talk really about how this teaching comes.
So, this is always, of course, many of you already know, we all know,
this teaching comes from the Buddha Shakyamuni.
But remembering of the kindness and the compassion of the Buddha that did.
And that's what his teaching, so really glorifying appreciate of him.
So, therefore, we think of him, talking about few words about the Buddhas.
And we say this again, Buddha came, this world, or in India, about 2,600 years ago.
And the Buddha, then, he left the kingdom at 39, sorry 29, and reached enlightenment at 35.
After reaching the enlightenment, then, or become absolutely Buddha, or total enlightenment,
then, 49 days after his enlightenment, he began sharing his realization and understanding
at the first time at Varanasi.
Five human students, and 80,000 celestial beings, and as well as many animals, and all those things
.
And Buddha gave the first teaching known as the Four Noble Truth Teachings,
and at Noble Path Teachings.
Those of Buddha gave those teachings.
And from that on, then, he continually started giving the teaching until he entered Mahabharata in
Varanasi.
The Buddha gave teaching over 45 years, continually Buddha gave the teachings over 45 years.
And then, in a minute time, the Buddha gave, known as the teachings of the Tapandya Paramata,
that which is beyond the character states, or absolute true naturals, Buddha expounded that
teachings.
At the third time, he started giving the teachings of the, and the nature of the true,
inherent nature, that each and every living being inherent.
He mentioned this Buddha and all the living beings, there is no really difference between at all
the natural levels.
We all have the same nature. We all have the same potential.
Because of that potential, because of that nature, Buddha himself, he said,
walked hard for that, that, and become the Buddha.
And where he walked, also, according to nature, what he inherited, to line up that nature,
not just something doing alien things or strange things, but exactly lined up to the natural way it
is.
Nature of our mind is according to Buddha's teaching, it's love, it's compassion, it's wisdom.
That is love and compassion, wisdom, that has no territories, no boundaries, that's the innate
nature.
That has to be reworded, and that is, in order to reword that nature, hard to do.
That is what Buddha gave the bodhicata teachings, namahayana teachings. That's what he mentioned
there.
So then, as Buddha gave all those teachings, and the teachings always said,
the great master said, Buddha completely everything what he had to do.
He completed all the teachings that Buddha had to do in his lifetime, or that time.
Completed, and then he entered Mahabharata in the runners.
Also, Buddha showed exactly where things are.
Things are calm, stay, go, it's part of the natural systems.
There is that, in order to demonstrate that, in order to show that nature,
and then Buddha entered Mahabharata in the runners.
And after Buddha entered Mahabharata in the runners, so many great masters,
so many great practitioners who practiced and meditated, they spread his teachings message to
everywhere.
Not just through the violence, through the forceful, but through the love, through the joy.
Everyone who ever heard these teachings, they all connected to these teachings.
They thought, so beautiful, because they connected their own heart, their own teachings.
They heard something strange, or different things talking, because it's in the nature.
Therefore, whoever heard these teachings, everyone likes to be practiced.
Everyone welcomes their teachings.
So therefore, Buddha's teachings spread out from the ordinary places,
as grass fire to everywhere, in all areas.
Everywhere spread it.
And that is how the Buddhists continue to carry it.
And then, at the same time, around the 8th century, then the Buddhism came to Tibet,
or even before the 7th century, Buddhism came to Tibet.
But 8th century, by the great master, Gaurabhema Sambhava, and Shandara Kita,
and the great King Busan Dethi, these three are known as, as many of you know,
known as, then, the founders of the Tibet Buddhists.
They completely bought all the Buddhisms from the original Buddha's teachings,
or Theravada, or known as the Shravakayana teachings,
all the Latin Mahayati teachings, Nayana teachings, the whole body of the teachings.
In other words, the Buddha gave the teachings as 35, under 81 or 80.
That whole teaching brought to Tibet without any discrimination or sorting out,
brought every teachings.
That all teachings are known as, in the Nyingma teachings, known as Nayana teachings.
So it brought all that teachings, completed.
Not just they brought the teachings, but they translated the entire teachings
and put that into practice, put that into studying, and contemplating, and meditating.
Because of that, there are so many great beings, got the highest realization,
so one after another, and those are known as, then, 25 disciples from the Gaurabhema Sambhava,
and as well as the 80 Mahasadas of the Yerba regions, and so forth.
So many great masters came.
And from that on, then the Buddhism continued to intubate and spread out so beautifully, so
perfectly,
and so many great masters came, one after another,
and then those are known as, then, four major schools, whatever the Buddhisms.
Kind of continually expanded from that, and then there's more other sub-schools, too.
There's so many schools.
But everyone began to practice, meditate, and combine together.
Entire Buddha teachings, such as the Thera Buddha teachings, Mahayana teachings,
Mahayana teachings, all combined, and whole body of the practices began to completely practice.
And then, particularly, in the Niyama school, and practice whole,
that body of Niyana teachings practices, meditate, and their realizations.
And those lineages are maintained by the two systems, as many of you all know,
known as the Kama and the Therma lineage, continually, until now.
So many great masters, so many great practitioners are keeping this teaching, continuing.
So that's how this teaching continues.
Among this teaching, among all those great masters, today,
we're going to talk with these 37 practices of the Bodhisattvas.
This is, again, in the context of the Niyanas, Niyana teachings,
Shravakayana, Parthika-Buddhayana, and Bodhisattva-Yanas, everything.
And Bodhisattva-Yana, these are the teachings of the Bodhisattva-Yanas teachings,
all commonly, generally, known as Mahayana teachings.
So this is the essential teachings, or the practice of the Mahayana teachings.
And who taught these teachings? By one of the great masters, Hermitage of the Jersey, Murtu Tomi.
Murtu Tomi, which is already here.
He came, I think, around 14 centuries, I think.
He was born, I think, in 1295, and he entered Mahaparin nirvana in 1369.
And he was, I think, he stayed about 74 years around that.
He was one of the great master's teachers, and also Hermitage, according to his stories.
He was very Hermitage. He was very humble and simple.
But he would be practicing these, Bodhisattva practices, become one of the essential practices.
And the teachings say that when he was born, even in childhood, he was so compassionate, so kind,
so compassionate,
concerning all the beings, everyone. He didn't really care too much himself.
He was thinking how to help the central beings.
As that genuine compassion in his heart, in his mind, then he, when he entered the practice, when
he was growing up, that was his catch-up practices.
He started that time, started and contracted with the great master's, he became one of the great
scholars too.
And one of the great master's asked so many different questions, particularly in the Abhidharma
questions, in the teachings said, when he was young.
And he answered everything, without any pause, without any stopping, or without any kind of
shortages, he answered everything.
And therefore, then this great master named, "Oh, you have no blockage, no kind of shortages, no
shortages."
And that was what his name became, Tomi in the Tibetan. Tomi means one don't have any pause.
- Pause. - Pause. He don't pause, or he's not really shortage of the answers.
He don't have any, that he's answered everything so clearly, so perfectly beautiful, and says, then
this is, is, "Jersi Murchu Tomi Zangwati."
That's Parzambhu, so that's what his name.
And then also, the great master said, he was emanation of the Genesis, the Lord of Compassion, or
the Buddha of Compassion.
So truly, he is the emanation of compassion, but his practice was truly both each other's practices
, all the time.
That was his practices. His love and kindness of compassion is true, so much to all the sentient
beings, without any discriminations.
He belongs with the new schools of the Tibetan Buddhism.
As he said in Tibetan Buddhism, there are four major schools, such as Nungma, Kaju, Satcha, and Gel
os.
So, he belongs with the new schools, particularly, I think more, in Gelos, at that time, maybe Gel
os was not that tightly existing,
but these Tadam schools, and as well as Satcha schools, such many great masters, he started to
create many masters from the Satcha schools.
So, he was, in a way, that, but his practice was generally compassion practices, and as well as Bod
hisattva Charya Avataras,
and which is known as the guide to the way and the lives of the Bodhisattva by great master Shanti
Devas.
That was his, one of the principle practices, and his meditations, that.
So, that is, then, the essence toward these teachings, teachings, these teachings become so popular
for all schools of the Tibetan Buddhism.
It's not just only one side. This practices widely to everyone, because it touched to the very core
of compassion, very loving kindness.
We can always talk about exchanging, receiving, exchanging.
This explaining the exchanging, how we should stay. So, stone and compassion, never mind.
Whatever situation, circumstance, or the difficulty came, challenge coming from outside.
But our compassion should not lost it. We always kind of take the hand of that very well.
Whatever the necessity, whatever the difficulty comes, comes.
And that is what this teaching says. Of course, we will go through, so you will read this.
This is so popular, so powerful practice to every practitioner.
So, that is really kind of like his story, how this teaching started, or how this came.
Now, we go to the text itself, so you will look to this text.
And this is now, according to the kind of intubate, when you study this, how they do.
And many times, what I learned from many great masters as well.
And when I had the opportunity to study, they always told, kind of like, anyway, the bird's eye w
oos look into this text.
So, if we look to the bird's eye woos, this teaching is divided into three groups.
The beginning, the middle, and ending.
What is the beginning of this? That beginning is the title. Title of the teachings.
Then, principle body of the teachings. And what is the end is the color forms.
So, those are how to kind of lay out this. So, three first topics we go.
So, now, we go to look to these titles. And that is then already translated here.
The 37 practices of the Bodhisattvas. This is what.
And here, Bodhisattva, with Bodhisattvas, Bodhisattva, every translated into English.
Courageous ones for enlightenment. That is the word Bodhisattvas.
Bodhi is enlightenment. Sattva is courageous. The courageous for enlightenment.
That tells, again, to us, to us, to reach enlightenment.
To help important sentient beings, we have to be courageous. We cannot be timid.
We are also courageous. That means we are not going to control, preserving, protecting our self-
importance.
Self-importance. We are not going to also try to pay too much attention with our own ego-clinging.
We are going to, in a way, put sides of our ego-clinging.
And along with the ego-clinging's important wish, demand is self-importance.
So, we are going to put sides. To do this, then, is courageous.
This is courageous. This is how long we are going to keep this courageous.
Always, teaching says, this courageous we are going to keep for a long time this courageous.
We are not just keeping the courageous and practicing this only for our purposes, our own sex.
We are practicing the Bodhisattva practices for all the sentient beings.
And how many sentient beings there?
Always, the teaching says it is numberless, countless.
And so, we are going to keep the courageous until every sentient beings reach enlightenment or
become the Buddha.
So, this means it is the long-lasting goal of the courageous.
And we will continually keep this.
So, therefore, in a number level of the beings, it is countless.
Time level is also no time, actually.
We are going to practice to always keep the courageous.
As Jainese, Jainese is known as a rich enlightenment. Jainese is the Buddha.
Absolutely, that is what is called the Buddha of compassion.
But this Buddha of compassion, always in the teaching says, he becomes a state as Bodhisattvas.
Because of his compassion, his love and kindness, his concern and thought for all the living beings
,
he is a state as Bodhisattvas.
So, Jainese is a role model.
And also when you help the sentient beings, sentient beings, sentient beings are not always easy to
help.
That I think many of you know, maybe sometimes.
And they can be stubborn. Not just they are stubborn, we are stubborn too.
Ourself, the moral image is back and forth, it is not just one side.
So, learn from the sentient beings. Improve ourself.
Learn from the sentient beings. Next time, stand to yourself, ourself.
Learn courage and commitment and confidence.
For that reason, it is called Sattvas, Bodhisattvas.
To become ourself, we need courageous.
And to help to the other sentient beings, we need courageous.
Courage and confidence is always so important.
That is the central column of the strength and vitality of the practices.
When you help to the compassion activities, generally, always, that is strengthening your suffering
.
Compassion activity of the compassion is like vitamins, always the great masters.
It is like power drinks. When you do the compassion activities, it feels so happy.
It makes you repress yourself. You feel something important, that I did something.
The reward in doing this is so good. It makes happy others. It makes happy you.
For that reason, the great Master, Shanti Deva, what is it?
Riding Bodhisattva is like riding the joyful ride.
Bodhisattva, part of the Bodhisattva is joyful ride, ride.
With this joyful ride, there is no sufferings.
From now on, when we have the genuine Bodhisattva in our heart, from that on, we move from joy to
joy.
Happy to the happy, peace to the peace, rewarding to the reward.
Rewarding and to ourselves, to others.
For that reason, this great Master, why we will be discouraged to perform the Bodhisattva
activities.
This is what it is. So therefore, this is Bodhisattva's.
So that is the breathing. Then, Bodhi is enlightenment.
And enlightenment is absolutely total enlightenment.
Enlightenment means what? Prefer all the obscurations.
That much, in the Buddha teaching always, how many obscurations can be summarized.
Of course, there are many different ways to explain, but all the obscurations can be summarized
into two.
Those are the emotional obscurations, knowledge obscurations.
So, free all the emotional obscurations. That includes the ego clingings.
Ego clingings is the obscurations, is the obstacles.
What the great Master, Gurbel Masambha said in his teachings,
then Kanchi Rama, which takes many times, quotations on Kanchi, Bodhi Chara Rama,
takes many times quotations that Gurbel Masambha said.
Ego is the most powerful demon, said.
This ego is the demon, the most powerful demon that must be scared away, let it go out, or kick out
that, that.
And then as well as everyone, every great Master, everyone says ego is the demon.
From now, from the beginning of this time, until now, it's been disturbing us.
To your, ourselves, it's disturbing. It's disturbing others.
Been disturbing continuously. This.
Now, we have to remove this. We have to kick out. Kick out.
So, when we remove the emotion obscurations, we remove the ego clingings, too.
Then knowledge obscurations, if I can simplify knowledge obscurations, what is this?
I can say grasping, clinging. Clinging is the knowledge obscurations that have been removed.
Though ego clinging is gross obscurations, clinging itself is subtle obscurations.
If both removed, what will be shining behind? What is left?
Then true love, true compassion, true wisdom without any attachment, without any grasping.
Grasping. That is known as the unconditioned true love, true compassion, true wisdom.
That is what nature is. That, when you revert that, that is known as Buddha.
That. So, that is really about bodhisattvas. Now, to reach that realization, to make this happen,
then this great Master explained there is 37 practices, or 37 related with this bodhisattvas.
That 37 stanzas explained one after another. This is the practice of bodhisattva.
This is practice of bodhisattva. He is kind of pointing out one after another.
Then, all these 37 stanzas here, one after another, these teachings.
So, that is really about the title. Kind of an explanation of the title.
And now, we got the main body of this teaching, the principal body of the teachings.
The principal body of the teachings, then again, we look kind of now, in a way,
we are now looking into the bird's eye, but we zoom in.
More zoom in, and look to this text. To this text.
Now, we zoom in, now to the principal body, what is here.
First is, then, there is always in the teaching, those great Master, when they give the teaching,
there is always known as homage teachings.
Homage and respecting and appreciating of the lineage of where this teaching comes from.
So, appreciating that. Remember their kindness.
That. And so, that is first. And then, second, they always talk, most of the text has this.
And second, that I am committed to finish what I started.
This is called, sometimes, commitment, sometimes, promise.
But always, so this is the second that.
The third is, then, the principal body of the teachings.
And explaining. So, we got those.
And now, so with that understanding, now we go to the homage.
Homage, then, this text or this practicing, there is two homages.
Homage in Sanskrit language, homage in Tibetan language.
There is two homages. Or, paying respects.
Now, in Sanskrit language, namo loki shorad.
And the Tibetan language, of course, is already here.
And that is the English, then, English, translated here.
So, homage in Sanskrit and homage in English or the Tibetan language.
Languages. So, these two.
Now, first, we go to homage to the meaning, really meaning of this first quote.
The Sanskrit language.
Sanskrit language. And the Sanskrit language is already here.
It is already wrote, namo loki shoraya.
Shoraya. On the Tibetan, it says, shoraya, shoraya.
Namo loki shorayas. And now, if I can't relate, can't divide or split the words, meaning, namo is
homage.
Namo loki shoraya is the name of the ava loki shor, or the jainism.
So, that means, I pay homage to the ava loki shoraya, or I pay homage to the lord of compassion.
The lord of compassion. That is the meaning.
And namo, now, bhijandere li pay homage.
Homage means, or nam, what that means?
Homage means respecting and appreciating.
And that means, when you respect and appreciate means, then also we are making ourself more humble.
What's called humility? Humility is more humble. We are deeply moved by the call of such great
masters, those great teachings, great beauties.
And that's what I humbled by this.
When we are humbled, what it does? It reduces our arrogance, our doubt and hesitations.
When it reduces our doubt and hesitation, arrogance, what it does?
Then it brings more confidence, more joy, more certainties.
And then we really begin to absorb knowledge and blessings, or the knowledge into our mind streams.
So, we are kind of preparing situation, circumstances, more clearly that to absorb the sunlight of
the knowledge, blessing can enter our mind streams.
Streams. So, that is the general meaning of homages.
It's very important. The arrogance is then one of the five poisons.
And we listed five poisons in the arrogance one.
And arrogance is always teaching. Those great masters said it's just always disturbance, always
disturbs.
And so, that's namo. That's brilliant.
And then with homages, many great masters, I mean, generally there's three different ways to homage
, pay respects.
Those highly realized beings, homage is known as understanding of the true nature, exactly as it is
.
Beyond the subject, object and action. Maintaining the perfectly natural of the mind or realization
of true nature.
That is great homage. Absorbing the knowledge.
And then in the second is known as the homage of the meditation ways, or understanding.
And see, everything is the beauty, the perfect mandala of the Buddha's, according to Vajrayana,
everything is the beauty in the display status.
Or in the sattara teaching, everything is a mirage. Everything is a dream.
Everything can be that understanding and bring our genuine kind of respect and appreciation.
That is, is homages. And then regular homages are under deep, kind of knowing, beautiful knowledge
in the college.
College of all these great masters, particularly Genesis.
Genesis is a compassion. And the compassion of the Genesis is, has no boundary, no limitation to
all the time.
So, it feels really extremely genuine, kind of like, respect and appreciate.
And then, say, namo lokeshwarahe. And lokeshwarahe, if we translate it, if we translate it, Lord of
, what's the quote?
Lord of the universe, or Lord, mighty, powerful ones. And the mighty, powerful one means, then,
compassion.
Actually, don't do the compassion. Compassion is the most powerful. There is nothing more powerful
than the compassion.
It's to heal, to remove the obscurations, to bring the joy and peace, happiness, to make happy me,
bring happy others.
That's the compassion. So, there is nothing more powerful, more special than the compassion.
So, to that is Genesis and I pay homages. So, that is really about this meaning of the Sanskrit
language.
And now, we move to the next one, the English. That's the next one. Then we'll translate it into
English.
You see that all the phenomena neither come nor go. And still, you strive solely for the benefit of
the beings.
"Supreme guru and product of generosity, to you I continually bow with body, speech, and mind."
That is longer stance and homage. Homage. Pay respect.
We praise this, we praise, then we pay homage. How praise this by great Master Mooji Tommi. How
praise?
And he prays the understanding of all the absolute nature by the genocide.
And then yet, he's also how thoughtful to all the beings.
Even he realizes the absolute nature perfectly exactly as it is.
But yet, he's so particular, so thoughtful, looking every sentient beings.
And we don't neglect any sentient beings by your compassion. Therefore, I pay respect. I humbled by
you.
And so, I pay respect by the speech-mind. That is really that.
So now, first we look again. You see that all phenomena neither come nor go.
What is this? This is absolute nature of the truth.
What the great Master Nagarjuna said in his first teaching, that we join always in hard suttas here
.
Everything arises interdependently and the nature is what? Unceasing and unborn. Neither non-
existing nor everlasting.
And neither coming nor going. Neither several meanings nor single meanings.
This is known as ad-complexity. Nature is free from the ad-complexity.
In Tibet, that is what nature is free from.
That is what nature is free from all that.
Reality level, true nature is bound of this ad-complexity status. Totally.
If you look, that's what it means. If you look carefully at those coming and going, birth and not
birth,
each of that, we're not going to find any singular source.
It's all great emptiness status. Great economic status. Absolutely. Everything.
That we can apply to your own mind. If you give kind of not philosophical level, kind of like
although all external how to,
everything is free from ad-extremes or ad-complexities, that's how the great Master Nagarjuna
established it.
So, everything is established at zoking levels to your mind, to your own mind.
If you look to your mind, where your first and second thought came from, where it's coming, where
it's went,
you read your own mind or there's many and there's no singular.
Do you think in applying this teaching of Nagarjuna's, apply it to your mind, we reach to the
speechless status.
There's nothing more than, except speechless. That's the beginning of the teaching we joined.
Inconceivable, inexpressible, unborn, unceasing, natural, like by sky.
That is the world realization. That's its true nature. That is true natural realization levels.
Yet, everything is arising as interdependent, as strengthened. Everything is arising magically.
Who taught that? That's taught by the Buddha. Therefore, you are the excellent speaker.
You are the excellent speaker among all the speakers. There's no one said like that.
Before you Buddha, for that reason, I Nagarjuna, he said, I respect you.
And here, this great Master just bought two, coming and going. All that goes beyond existing, non-
existing, neither and either.
Nature is that status. You realize that nature, perfectly, exactly as it is. That is your
realization.
But, even everyone, we are all in that natural status. But, we don't have that realization because
of our duality,
because of our grasping. We spoiled, we were kind of looking in one direction all the time and
narrowed, kind of made that natural.
And then, we are experienced as nightmares, situations.
Even though the Chinese are natural, our natural, it's not different nature. It's the same nature.
But yet, there is two-way experience.
Generation is this dream, interdependent coordination. It displays magical status. For us,
everything is so strong, so solid, so regiment, so kind of like bouncing back and forth.
We are crushed by this externally, internally, emotionally. Many levels are like this, always kind
of bouncing.
That's our, our, for that reason. You, Genesee, you have that realization of the true nature,
exactly as it is.
But yet, for us, ignorant beings, all beings, you're so thoughtful, so, so kind. Your love and
kindness and compassion is never neglected us and say,
"Oh, it's just like a nightmare dream. It's nothing happened." He never said that, Genesee. And
each and every time, Genesee is helping us.
So how kind, how special it is. That Genesee is not separate than my teacher. The teacher and the
Genesee is inseparable status.
Treat that great teacher. Realization as that, but comparing, out-reaching, comparing, it's to
every living being, so kind and so nice.
Not compassion is coming as like, as like possible, as a boss, but so thoughtful, as a service, as
a favor, as a friend, as friendship.
And helping support and with love and joy, peace and compassion and understanding and so thoughtful
, like friend level, you help me.
For that reason, then I was humbled. I'm humbled, humbled, and therefore I respect with body,
respect with speech, respect with mind.
Mind. What is respect of the body? Always in the teaching set. Set, that's what we do. Respect,
gesture of the respect of the body is like this.
All ball stations, all in the different style, say, what's called a shag hand, all say, "Hi."
All those are the different kind of gestures of the respect.
Matter is all, all ball stations. And respect of the speech is, then saying kind words, "Oh, hi."
"Hi," with this smiling face. Face, those are respect of the, and then he has said, "Oh, kind of
seeing these things."
It's respect. And respect of the mind is, then, joy and appreciation.
Generally, I'm deeply moved. I'm deeply moved. We call it a view. That is respect of this.
So, for that reason, I respect. Go sampkiva. Go sampkiva.
This is in Tibet, and in the Buddha's teaching, always the continued bow with body, speech, mind of
the three doors.
Even though it's not exactly translated here, but three doors.
Why say three doors? In Tibet, we have three doors. And why this three doors?
Because this three doors means metaphors. This body, speech, mind, in a way, entrance of our
activities.
Everything goes through this. Our mind activity goes with mind.
And our mind activity also comes more kind of actively with speech.
It's coming and going. So, it's the entrance. And the body is the entrance there with all the
activities.
Our activities, we can summarize the good activities and not good activities, or beneficial
activities,
un-beneficial activities, or neutral activities that all function and reflect through these three
ways.
And therefore, it's like doors in the teaching system.
So, that is really about the, really about the, about the homages.
And now, maybe we, I just go really over this second stanza, really this.
And that is then, this is now commitment. I am willing to start this teaching, and I'm going to
finish.
This is what it means. And always, so that is what.
So, the perfect Buddha, source of the benefit in happiness, arrives from the, accomplishing the
genuine dharma.
Since that is to, to depend on knowing how to practice, the practice of the bodhisattva shall be
explained.
That is the English translators. If I roughly translate in my own way, the, all the source of the
happiness and benefit of now and the future is, comes from the teaching by the Buddha.
Teaching comes from that, by the teaching of the Buddhas.
And also, even though it comes from the teaching, or the teaching of the Buddha, but it is, if you
don't know how to practice, then it won't make the full benefit.
For that reason, I'm going to explain. I'm going to teach you, or tell you, the old, what practices
shall be performed by the bodhisattvas.
All the vectority sounds. So that is what it means.
So first is the, the, explain the importance and how powerful or special the Buddha teaching is.
This, this. That means happiness, peaceful happiness, good things now and forever. It comes from
the teaching of the Buddha.
Now we think this, what that really means, it's making kind of like, arrogant statement, or the
Buddha teaching is so special, and that's the only one.
Maybe this is so much kind of ambitious, making big statement, maybe a little bit more, too much,
much about the, because the Buddhism is so special and so important.
Is it explaining? Or is it really true? And we can think this, this. But now, if it's everything
that way, and now why, why this great Master says Buddha teaching is the source of everything.
This is similar Shanti Deva explaining, we do dedication. Dedicated at the end of this phrase, we
always have that.
Similar things Shanti Deva said. Why this thing? It's just kind of too much statement. But we think
carefully, what is really Buddha teaching is.
Buddha teaching is genuine love, genuine compassion, genuine detachment. That's what really Buddha
teaching is.
So, the genuine love, genuine compassion, genuine detachment to your own self, or to, by you, to
the other, to detachment, to anyone's.
This is truly is the source of every joy and peace. Because there is no ego involvement at all.
There is no ego involvement at all. That means there is nothing involved with ignorance, attachment
, anger, jealous, arrogance.
If that is out of free, then why is it not? It's a source of joy and peace, happiness now and in
the future.
Who can deny? Who can argue with that? Love is love and compassion and wisdom or genuine detachment
is not a source of joy, peace, happiness now and in the future.
That is the word. But even though that is so special, this all comes from the practice of that,
comes from that.
Even though it's so special, we have to know how to practice.
If we don't know how to practice, then even if we have the perfect tools and the perfect resources,
if we don't know exactly how to use this, then it can also become not full benefit.
It comes from this. Therefore, I, Jersingh or Satomi, going to explain that practices, starting
from this and going to finish this.
I'm going to finish. I'm determined. So that is the really about these explanations.
Okay. So that's my teaching. And I stop here. And again, thank very much to everyone participating.
And I wish you all the best in happiness.
May all we have some realization of this and everyone move forward with this as much as we can,
with the compassion and love. And thank you very much.
Pardon? And then the next two weeks, I will continue this. This and those who have time to
reconnect again, I will be very happy.
We will go as much as we can, according to my best capabilities, and talk these things as much as
we can.
And be together and connected together is so wonderful, so great. I'm so happy we have this
technology, modern, and so thankful. Okay.
Thank you everyone. Thank you. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Thank you.
Again, we do that through meditating. And then we do maybe, again, dedication in English. So we won
't take too time.
But that's why we do short meditation.
Thank you.
Okay. Now we dedicate the merit.
And.
Thank you.